# **Optimal Fitness**


## Project Summary
We want to create a web application that helps users track thier workouts and calories, while givnig them advice on how to improve. Users can use our applicatoin to track their workouts and calories, while also looking at what their friends are doing too. The use of this website is to help users start their fitness journey and help them stay motivated showing them what their friends are doing as well. 


## Project Description
With the increase of remote work these past few years people have been stayng at home and have stopped going to the gym causing them to be in poor physical shape, so we decided to develop a web application that tracks workouts, workout routines, and calories to help people get back in the gym. In our app users can create their own workouts, ask the application for a workout split, calculate their calories for cutting or bulking catered to their personal needs. 
 
Users can also look at their friend's information and see what kind of workouts they are doing and what progress their friends have been making. If users hit thier calorie goals consistently, consistently workout or hit a max PR on a workout they will be rewarded with certain gift. 


## Usefulnesss

Health is an extremely important factor in today’s world. This application will particularly help in this factor, as it will make sure to incorporate all of the different aspects related to health and help expand on that. The main goal of our app is to make it as personalized as possible. Based on the age and weight that a user inputs, we will be able to calculate all of the factors that would improve the user’s health, such as the food he or she should intake or the workouts that he or she should participate in. Because of this personalized and recommendation experience that our application will exhibit to its users, we believe that it is what makes it different from the other similar applications that are out there. 


## Realness
This data has many separate databases that are associated with the application. The first database that we would use is the user database, where the different values associated with it, such as name, age, weight, etc. are generated by the user. This helps with the personalized aspect of the application. The second database associated with our application is the foods database, where we plan to get information about the servings and calories from online that is associated with each food the user inputs in our application. The final database is a database that we would make, which is related to workouts and its information. 

## Description of the functionality
### Data stored in the database
1. User inputs 
* Name
* Auto-generated id
* Age
* Weight
* Height
* Goals (bulk, cut, maintain)
* Daily Calorie Goal
2. Foods
* Food name
* Servings
* Calorie total
3. Workouts
* Workout name
* Number of sets
* Number of reps
* Weight
* Target Group

### Basic functions of our website

1. Users will be able to track the number of calories consumed that day. 
* Users will be able to input weight, age, height, and goals and get a target calorie goal, based on their workout goals.
* Users will be able to input what meals they’ve eaten throughout the day and the number of servings consumed to track the number of calories they’ve eaten.

2. Users will be able to track what workouts they are doing.
* Users will be able to input what workouts they are doing and the number of sets, reps, and weight too.
* Users can also select pre existing workouts and add them to their daily workout routine.

3. Users will also be able to connect with other users.
* Users will be able to connect with other users and see if they are hitting their calorie goals, worked out on a given day, and also see what workout they are doing

### Good creative component
Being able to have users connect and interact with each other will be a really cool feature to have. There aren’t really any workout tracker apps where you can connect with other users and see their progress as well. 


## Project Work Distribution
1. UI / UX
* Implement home page (aryan gupta)
* Implement workout page (neil sahai)
* Implement calorie page (neil sahai)
2. Database 
* Backend query and syncing with user input (ayan deka & nikil nambiar)
* Connecting with other users (ayan deka, neil sahai, ayan deka, nikil nambiar)


